Cloud Dedicated security and token detail (#5084)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/internals/security.md

### Access, authentication, and authorization

InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated uses [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) for authentication and separates workload cluster management authorizations (using _management tokens_) from database read and write authorizations (using _database tokens_).

- [User provisioning](#user-provisioning)
- [Management tokens](#management-tokens)
- [Database tokens](#database-tokens)

#### User provisioning

> InfluxData creates user accounts on the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated system via Auth0.

Author: ```suggestion
InfluxData uses Auth0 to create user accounts and assign permission sets to user accounts on the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated system.
```

After a user account is created, InfluxData provides the user with the following:

- An **Auth0 login** to authenticate access to the cluster
- The InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated **account ID**
- The InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated **cluster ID**
- The InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated **cluster URL**
- A password reset email for setting the login password

With a valid password, the user can login via InfluxData's `influxctl` command line tool.
The login command initiates an Auth0 browser login so that the password is never exchanged with `influxctl`.
With a successful authentication to Auth0, InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated provides the user's `influxctl` session with a short-lived [management token](#management-tokens) for access to the Granite service.
The user interacts with the `influxctl` command line tool to manage the workload cluster, including creating [database tokens](#database-tokens) for database read and write access.

#### Management tokens

Management tokens authenticate user accounts to the Granite service and provide authorizations for workload cluster management activities, including:
 
 - account, pricing, and infrastructure management
 - inviting, listing, and deleting users

>  - creating, listing, and deleting, and databases

Reviewer: s/, and databases/ databases/

>  - creating, listing, and deleting, and databases

Author: ```suggestion
 - creating, listing, and deleting databases
```

 - creating, listing, and deleting database tokens

Management tokens consist of the following:

- An access token string (sensitive)

> - A permissions set for management activities (configured by InfluxData during initial provisioning)

Reviewer: It might be more clear to say 'configured when provisioning a user' since that will cover the first user that is initially provisioned, but also newly invited users. This language should also be general enough to cover the future fine-grained management token permissions when creating a new user.

Author: @jdstrand 
> It might be more clear to say 'configured when provisioning a user' since that will cover the first user that is initially provisioned, but also newly invited users. This language should also be general enough to cover the future fine-grained management token permissions when creating a new user.

Is the permission set associated with the account, i.e., Is it accurate to say this:

```
InfluxData creates user accounts and assigns permissions to user accounts on the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated system via Auth0.
```

Author: Also, should I add something like "authorized users can invite new users and set permissions for new user accounts"?

Reviewer: This is accurate: "InfluxData creates user accounts and assigns permissions to user accounts on the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated system via Auth0."

> Also, should I add something like "authorized users can invite new users and set permissions for new user accounts"?

No, not yet as we don't yet have fine-grained management token permissions exposed to users.

- A mandatory 1 hour expiration

When a user issues a command using the `influxctl` command-line tool, `influxctl` sends the management token string with the request to the server, where Granite validates the token (for example, using Auth0).
If the management token is valid and not expired, the service then compares the token's permissions against the permissions needed to complete the user's request.

> Only valid unexpired tokens that have the necessary permissions sets are authorized to perform management functions with InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only valid, unexpired tokens that have the necessary permission sets are authorized to perform management functions with InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated.
```

Following security best practice, management tokens are never stored on InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated (Granite or workload cluster) servers, which prevents token theft from the server.
On the client (the user's system), the management token is stored on disk with restricted permissions for `influxctl` to use on subsequent runs.
For example, a user's Linux system would store the management token at  `~/.cache/influxctl/*.json` with `0600` permissions (that is, owner read and write, and no access for _group_ or _other_).

#### Database tokens

> Database tokens provide authorization for users and client applications to read and write data and metadata in a InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated database.

Author: ```suggestion
Database tokens provide authorization for users and client applications to read and write data and metadata in an InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated database.
```

All data write and query API requests require a valid database token with sufficient permissions.
_**Note:** an all-access management token can't read or write to a database because it's not a database token._

Database tokens consist of the following:

- An identifier
- A description
- A permissions set for reading from a database, writing to a database, or both

> - A base64-encoded 512-bit random string (the API key string)

Reviewer: The API string is actually `apiv1_<base64>` so it might be more accurate to say:

- An API key string (format is `apiv<N>_<base64-encoded 512-bit random string>`)

> - A base64-encoded 512-bit random string (the API key string)

Author: ```suggestion
- An API key string (sensitive, with the format apiv<N>_<base64-encoded 512-bit random string>)
```

When a user successfully creates a database token, the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated Granite server reveals the new database token to the user as an API key string - the key string is only visible when it's created.
The user is responsible for securely storing and managing the API key string.

> Following security best practice, database tokens are never stored on InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated (Granite or workload cluster) servers, which prevents token theft from the server.

Reviewer: s/database tokens/the raw API key string of database tokens/ (or similar)

We do store the other portions of the database tokens (ie, the identifier, the description, the permissions set), but we do NOT store the raw API key string. I think it would be more clear to say that here as then it sets up the reader for the next sentence.

> Following security best practice, database tokens are never stored on InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated (Granite or workload cluster) servers, which prevents token theft from the server.

Author: ```suggestion
Following security best practice, a database token's raw API key string is never stored on InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated (Granite or workload cluster) servers, which prevents token theft from the server.
```

> The servers store the SHA512 of the database token's API key string.

Author: ```suggestion
The servers store non-sensitive database token attributes (identifier, description, and permissions set) and the SHA512 of the token API key string.
```
